{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.22621}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\i\f0\fs22\lang9 Today I hope to paint for you a picture of at least two incompatible realities, and how the denizens in each self-righteously ignore the feelings and aspirations of the other group to the detriment of both, but for the purpose of highlightning the importance of understanding and belief in social dynamics. I welcome you to correct any erroneous statements of fact, but otherwise aim to demonstrate no bias towards one group or the other. I also warn you of the somewhat chaotic narrative in this draft.\i0\par
First, a statement of facts. (Please note that I include very few facts because the scope of my argument does not require more.)\par
On January 6, 2021, I watched from Brazil as many thousands of people descended onto Washington DC to show support for USA incumbent president Donald Trump and protest the reported results of the 2020 presidential election. During this protest, at the behest of Donald Trump, a fraction of the overall crowd marched on and surrounded the USA Capitol building, some of them entering that building.\par
I imagine this otherwise anodyne presentation of events roils sectarians, but I request you suspend your political filters for the purposes of understanding my argument because I now boorishly attempt to categorize the mainstream perspectives on what those facts mean.\par
(For posterity unfamiliar with the federal civics of USA in the early 21st century: we have a triumverate government made up of the executive, legislative, and judicial branches; members of the duopolist parties, Democrat and Republican, occupy all seats in these branches and compete between themselves for overall dominance of the federal government. A single sectarian, temporarily ennobled as the president, leads the executive branch. The point of contention here involves the filling of the seat of president.)\par
Many Democrats, the sect in control of the legislative branch on January 6, 2021, believe their candidate, Joe Biden, won the presidential election of Novemeber 2020, and that those entering and surrounding the Capitol building attempted a coup d'etat, committing insurrection and treason against the USA. They see those people as a threat to the country.\par
Many Republicans, the sect in control of the executive branch on January 6, 2021, believe participants in a corrupted bureacratic deep-state manuevered the election results to steal the win from their candidate, Donald Trump. They see those people as a threat to the country.\par
With these statements out of the way, I finally move towards my own argument--something I want you to think about.\par
Long before the kerfuffle of the 2020 presidential election, I surmised and invited others to participate in a simple thought experiment on the extent to which belief informs our society.  It went as such: What power would they have if one day the person we currently think of as president woke up and no one believed the position of president existed anymore?\par
I never so obviously thought of the transition of power as a practical, extant example of the experiment. In my hypothesis everyone simply changed their mind, they didn't want a president anymore! Now recent history provides me a much more appropriate context in which to frame the experiment because I no longer ask you to imagine everyone turning into an anarchist from one minute to the next because now I only need bring up January 20, 2021.\par
Regardless of whether or not your own understanding of January 6 has you more in line with the Democrats or Republicans, on January 20, the date on which the occupant of the seat of president changes, it happened, the immense and immeasurable executive branch took on a new boss, and things continued without a hitch. For many whose pitiful largesse depends utterly on the maintenance of our big brother, fundamental change represents a risk. For these, believing Trump the president one minute and Biden the president the next minute made all the sense in the world, and proved no great mental feat, regardless of their otherwise personal feelings about either. And perhaps on any other election, most of the rest of the country could perform the same mental experiment successfully, but due to the conflicting understandings of reality, and therefore contradictory beliefs of the two parties, many Democrats saw this transition as a narrow win for \i democracy,\i0  while many Republicans saw democracy lost.\par
I apologize for having brought up a point of national contention only to use it as a springboard for something superficially very different, but I can think of few other contemporary issues which so succinctly highlight the impact of understanding on our beliefs, and beliefs on our actions.\par
At bitcoin brunch we spend a great deal of time discussing the importance of financial literacy. When we use money without an understanding of its functions and potential as a tool for storing and exchanging value, we have no choice but to play the financial games created by others, filtered by their beliefs and asiprations, sometimes in spite of our own hopes. Bitcoin, like FIAT money, serves a limited role in the lives of those who don't understand it. Can you believe something has value if you don't understand its uses? As with state currencies, the rote memorizations of money practices like working and paying rent imbue in us cutlural beliefs about money, but not necessarily reasonable beliefs.\par
So here, at the infancy of the bitcoin economy, why do I bring up understanding and belief? Because the commitments we make today to the future will determine the extent to which the average person in the future world will use their money as a tool of empowerment, or as a means of sacrificing their time to the unseen machinations of others.\par
We don't need to fight public battles with our perceived enemies to win the war for hearts and minds. In fact, if anything, the Democrats and Republicans have shown in their decades of hegemony that coercion makes more long-term enemies than friends--sews more division than builds bonds. I don't want a world where people use bitcoin only because they have to. I want the world where people use bitcoin because they understand its value, and therefore want to use it. To bring this about requires a humility not allowed in any politics. It also requires patience, and a willingness to put aside differences to reach common understanding.\par
Can the Democrats and Republicans ever reach a common understanding? Certainly not. That goes against their brand. They each need the other as a scapegoat for their shortcomings and ulterior motives. Bitcoin, on the other hand, doesn't \i need\i0  any scapegoats. It doesn't need the dollar supply to inflate, for governments to fund endless wars, corporate welfare, or the cantillon effect. To believe in bitcoin as better money, we need to understand it. And we need to help others understand it because through a collective understanding of better money value necessarily grows. When we force people to use what we \i simply believe\i0  as better money, growth of value follows only by luck, and we create a new equivalent to Fiat, in fact we dictate a FIAT of our own.\par
Make no mistake about what happened in El Salvador. The government mandating the use of bitcoin as legal tender makes it a FIAT in that country, but we still have the opportunity, through the patience and efforts of educating people to understand bitcoin they too can overcome the objectification so typical of a wage labor system, and empower themselves through the inherent connection of bitcoin with the free market of the internet.\par
Having made this far longer than I should, but saying not nearly as much as I wanted, I will try to demonstrate my purpose with a final thought experiment, a simple homework assignment. Imagine one day everyone in your society believed bitcoin as a better money than government currencies. How would that change their behaviors? How could it change yours? And if that potential excites you, if you consider it worthwhile attempting, would you want to get there any other way than by growing the consciousness of your fellow humans to understand WHY bitcoin can serve as a better money? The answer to these questions could change the world from one minute to the next.\par
}
 